All changes in feature/doc_improvements branch (#555)
epam/ai-dial: docs_v2/3.building-with-dial/1.apps/2.quick-apps/1.quick-app-2/1.create-via-ui.md

Reviewer: this guide describes outdated UI. Current UI has more features and differ a little bit

Reviewer 2: CC @sr-remsha

Reviewer 3: I have uploaded new screenshots. Text must be validated and updated to reflect new features

---
title: "Create a Quick App 2.0 in DIAL Chat"
type: how-to
persona: app-dev
component: apps
last_verified: 2026-05-29
owner: "@dial-docs-team"
---

# Create a Quick App 2.0 in DIAL Chat

This guide walks through creating a Quick App 2.0 using the visual wizard in DIAL Chat. You will set a model, write a system prompt, add tools, and test the app before saving.

To create a Quick App 2.0 programmatically, see [Create via API](2.create-via-api.md) or [Create via config.json](3.create-via-config.md).

## Prerequisites

- Access to DIAL Chat with an authenticated user account.
- At least one language model deployed in your DIAL instance.
- (Optional) A Tool Set registered in DIAL Core if you want to add MCP tools.

---

## Step 1: Open the app wizard

In DIAL Chat, open **My workspace** and click the **Add app** button in the top-right corner. From the dropdown, select **Quick App 2.0**.

![My workspace page with the Add app dropdown open, showing Custom app, Mind map, Quick app, and Quick App 2.0 options](../img/add-app-dropdown.png)

The wizard opens with a two-step flow: **General info** → **App settings**.

> ---

Reviewer 3: Division line used in this document is not consistent with other document in this project

## Step 2: General info

Fill in the app's identity fields:

| Field | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|
| **Name** | Yes | The app's display name. |
| **Version** | Yes | Version string (e.g., `0.0.1`). |
| **Icon** | No | Click **Add** to upload a custom icon image. |
| **Description** | No | A short description shown to users in the app card. |
| **Topics** | No | Select one or more category tags (e.g., Analysis, Business, RAG) to help users find the app in the Marketplace. |

A preview of the app card appears on the right side of the screen.

![Quick App 2.0 wizard — General info step showing Name, Version, Icon, Description, and Topics fields, with a preview card on the right](../img/authoring-general-info.png)

Click **Next** to proceed.

---

## Step 3: App settings

The second step configures the app's behavior. The fields appear in this order:

![Quick App 2.0 wizard — App settings step showing Document relative URLs, Model selector, Agents & Toolsets panel, Instructions textarea, Attachment types, Max attachments number, and Temperature slider](../img/authoring-app-settings.png)

### Document relative URLs

> To ground the model's responses in a document stored in DIAL, click **+ Add** and enter the file's relative URL (e.g., `files/mybucket/knowledge-base.pdf`). This enables RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) using the document as a knowledge source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ground the model's responses in a document stored in DIAL, click **+ Add** and select dial file or upload it. This adds file info to app context and allows orchestrator/tools to request its content.
```

In the dialog:

1. Use the **search bar** to find agents or Tool Sets by name.
2. Switch between **My workspace** (your own and shared items) and **Marketplace** (published items available to your organization).
3. Select one or more items and click **Confirm**.

Selected agents and Tool Sets appear as chips in the Agents & Toolsets section. Click the **X** on a chip to remove it.

![App settings with two agents/toolsets added as chips: Anthropic Claude and Notion Toolset, each with an X button to remove](../img/authoring-agents-added.png)

See [Add tools and agents to a Quick App 2.0](4.working-with-tools-and-agents.md) for a complete walkthrough of all tool types, including REST API and MCP configurations.

### Instructions

Write the system prompt that guides the model's behavior. The instructions field is a full-featured text area — use plain text or Markdown-formatted content.

**Tips for effective instructions:**

- State the app's purpose clearly in the first sentence.
- Describe what the model should and should not do.
- If tools are connected, tell the model when and how to use them.

> - Use `{{variable}}` syntax for values that may change across deployments.

Reviewer: Remove this, it is not supported

### Attachment types and count

> Optionally restrict which file types users can attach (e.g., `.pdf`, `.docx`), and set a maximum number of attachments per message. Leave these blank to allow all types with no limit.

Reviewer: to enable attachments you need to specify types or allow all explicitly(`*/*`)
